# Report

We use multiple technologies to establish a distributed system, such as docker compose to emulate multiple machines and easily network them. The Go language is used as a CLI application as an interface, this was chosen for its simplicity and performance. The frontend uses Flask and connects to gRPC endpoints built on Python. The databases are SQLite instances deployed through Docker. It is worth noting that in this iteration of the assignment compared to the previous one, switching off of PostgreSQL to each server having its own internal SQLite database is part of a fix for the bug that caused the previous demo to fail. The other part of the fix was making the external IPs for the frontends static and ensuring that the RPCs can only be accessed internally through the frontends. These changes allow us to avoid any further issues with the firewall that caused the last demo to go wrong. Another reason why we switched to SQLite is the platform cannot handle 10 SQL databases, so we opted for an on virtual machine database. The products database uses Raft to function properly, this is implemented with the pysyncobj library. The python imports are inside of functions in certain cases, this is due to how pysyncobj works. The atomic sequencer implemented in the assignment functions based on four message types and thre loops. We have an ID for each message type: send payload, set sequence for payload, request payload retransmit, and request sequence for payload retransmit are our four message types labeled from 1 through 4, respectively. The loops are: receiving loop, sequencer loop and deliver loop. The receiving loop receives data from different servers, the sequencer loop sequences the messages and the deliver loop executes the current request, as determined by the sequencing.
  
The Python gRPC server connects to the databases using SQLAlchemy, creating database tables and handling seeding for testing. The gRPC communication is scheduled in a round robin format. A testing detail that should be noted is that we implement a watch thread that keeps track of the leader, for ease of evaluation. Currently, within the scope of the assignment, everything works. However, it is worth mentioning that when a customer makes a purchase, there is a small chance the payment goes through but the quantity has been allocated to another client whose payment went through faster, due to random scheduling and networking. We deployed the solution to GCP using Ansible, coupled with our Docker configuration, making it as simple as running `ansible-playbook -i hosts.yml deploy.yml`.